This repository contains the report, codes and ppt for the end-of-course project which had three tasks - 
1. **Echo Creation**
   **Task** - Given an audio file, we were supposed to introduce echo into it and obtain the resultant audio file./n
   **Approach** - We used the fact that echo is only perceivable to human ears if the temporal gap between the source sound and its reflection is at least 0.1 seconds. This translates to around 17m (considering speed of sound in dry air - 334m/s). Another fact that needed to be incorporated was the attenuation of the sound once it reflects off a surface. The attenuation factor depends on the distance of the reflector from the source and on the power of the signal as it is emitted from the source. Using the formula for deducing reduction in power after a reflection given that source is a point, we calculated the attenuation factor and for not making it too complex, we assumed there to be only 1 relfector.
   From Signal Processing point of view, we can model the system through an impulse function which is a decaying impulse train. The reason behind this is that the echoes are nothing but attenuated (in our case uniformly) and delayed versions of the original signal. Therefore, by upsampling the impulse train by an appropriate factor which denotes the temporal gap between two occurances of the signal, we can model the delayed versions of the original signal. The decaying impulses on the other hand complete the need for an attenuation factor. To obtain the echoed version of the signal, we convolute the source signal with the impulse response modelled as above. 
3. **Echo Cancellation**
4. **Noise classification**
